In this chapter we're going to discuss the
use
of iterators, an iterator is an object
that allows
you to traverse a sequence of data; such
as
a list or a dictionary, or a tuple; for
example.
But it also applies to files, so in this
lesson,
we're going to just discuss in general
what iterators are.
And when you do it by demonstrating some
code without actually executing it.
I just want to show you visually how
iterators work.
And then in the next lesson we'll actually
create an iterator or a couple of
iterators.
So first of all we need a sequence of data
of some type, so let's create a list.
So we have a list and we want to display
each element of the list.
So, one way to do that would be to write a
for loop.
So let me write that out real quick.
So, what happens when we execute the for
loop is that internally, an iterator is
created
and this object automatically points at
the first
element of the sequence, in this case, the
list.
And so, in the for loop, the iterator
points to one, and that one
is stored in number, and then we print
number, then we move back up.
The iterator moves to the next element,
stores it in number, and then displays
it, then the iterator moves to the next
element, stores it in number.
And displays it, then the iterator moves
to the
next element, stores it in number, then
displays it.
Then it moves to the next element, stores
it in number and then prints it.
Then the iterator is able to know that
it's
at the end of the sequence after the
number five.
So then it stops and control is
transferred
to the first statement, outside of the 4
loop.
So while the 4 loop is controlling the
iterations,
the iterator is actually controlling the
traversal through the list.
So at a high level abstract view, that's
how iterators work.
So what I like to do now is move onto the
next lesson, where we're going to actually
create our own explicit
iterator and used that to move through a
list, then we'll
create another iterator and use it to move
through a file.
And we're gonna to see how to do that in
the next lesson.